---
title: 'Best of... 2020'
id: '20201230-bestOf-2020'
date: 2020-12-30T22:57:00-05:00
categories: ['bestOf']
tags: ['']
description: |
    Another year we make a list of the albums that we liked the most in this year that is almost over.
---

Our annual review of the albums that we liked the most in Skulls & Ravens this 2020. We haven't had a year of concerts because of the damn virus, but there have been a lot of outstanding releases. This is our list of the studio albums that we liked the most. That does not mean that they are better or worse, but that they are the ones that have impacted and enjoyed us the most. Nor are they all who have come out this year. There have been hundreds of releases and it's impossible to hear them all (I would like to).

<h2>The most liked studio albums</h2>

<ordered-list :list="[{title: 'IN THIS MOMENT - MOTHER', text: 'Wonderful discovery that I have made this year. I'd never heard the group led by Maria Brink and this Mother has touched me very deeply. It is an album with a lot of character and many nuances. Maria's voice is impressive and songs like The In-Between, As Above, So Below or God Is She get into your head in a very dangerous way. Noteworthy is the cover of Fly Like An Eagle and, for me, the incredible version of We Will Rock You with the collaboration of Lzzy Hale and Taylor Momsen.', imageURL:'https://www.inthismomentofficial.com/sites/g/files/g2000004571/f/styles/480___480/public/201912/albumart_0.jpg?itok=wy5Swv1w'}, {title: 'TRIVIUM - WHAT THE DEAD MEN SAY', text: 'Since this album came out, the chorus of the song that gives the album its name has not been removed from my head. Similar happens to me with Catastrophist. That Trivium is hitting the music scene is a fact and that is shown in this album that has exceeded the bar of their previous and very outstanding The Sin And The Sentence. Watch out for the upcoming tour, if the virus leaves us, along with Heaven Shall Burn, Tesseract and Fit For An Auptopsy.', imageURL: 'https://www.trivium.org/sites/g/files/g2000010281/files/2020-04/Trivium_WTDMS_1080x1080.png'}, {title: 'NIGHTWISH - HUMAN. :II: NATURE', text: 'This double CD of the Finns led by Tuomas Holopainen seems to me a real marvel. On the one hand we have the first CD composed of nine songs where the pure essence of Nightwish is shown. Floor is brilliant, although her versatility and her voice can do more amazing things. We are getting used in recent albums to gradually dispense with Marco Hietala's voice, but his contribution to the album is priceless. Troy has contributed a lot to the group since his entry, the most relevant example of him is his contribution to the Harvest theme. The second CD is a song divided into eight chapters in which Tuomas conducts the London Symphony Orchestra to create a brilliant melody.', imageURL: 'https://global-uploads.webflow.com/5e235b1105541e20386fd864/5e359cc41212676f8ab69b5d_cover_FINAL_small-p-800.jpeg'}, {title: 'AMARANTHE - MANIFEST', text: 'What a big leap in quality the Swedes have made by signing with Nuclear Blast and collaborating with Angela Gossow on this Manifest. A powerful, fun and very moving album, maintaining its mix of electronic metal and perfectly mixing the voices of the outstanding Henrik, Elize and Nils. I could highlight the 12 tracks, but I will particularly focus on Strong, where the voices are played by Elize Ryd and Noora Louhimo. The mighty Do or Die, with Angela Gossow. And BOOM!1. I don't know if it is because of all the negative comments I have read about it or that it is really a work of art, but it is a song that I am passionate about (Heidi Shepherd's cameo included). His heaviest and most technical album', imageURL:'https://www.amaranthe.se/images/pagebuilderck/archangel_single.JPG'}, {title: 'BÁRBARA BLACK - LOVE, DEATH AND FLIES', text: 'Another of my discoveries of the year. The Madrid band presents an elegant and powerful album where you can taste sounds ranging from the most classic hard rock to southern rock. Catchy melodies, great intensity and viscerality in some moments do an album that is worth enjoying quietly at home at full volume.', imageURL:'http://barbarablackrock.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/PORTADA-LOVEDEATHNFLIES-1-300x300.jpeg'}, {title: 'DEEP PURPLE - WHOOSH!', text: 'I don't know if I'm getting older but I'm enjoying this Deep Purple album like it's the first time I've heard them. Don't be scared, it's not even close to the best album of his career, but it sounds so new and so old to me at the same time. Sometimes you taste old school notes and sometimes you come across other notes that the British group has wanted to experiment with. Brilliant!!', imageURL:'https://cdn.shopify.com/s/files/1/0849/9992/products/DeepPurpleArt_2048x2048.jpg?v=1583763432'}, {title: 'POLARIS - THE DEATH OF ME', text: 'Metalcore in its purest form. 100% enjoyable album whether you like this genre or not. Strong melodies on this second album by the Australians that show that the success of their first album was no an accident. It's an album that you put on a loop and without stopping.', imageURL: 'https://cdn.shopify.com/s/files/1/2140/5561/t/12/assets/pf-1def74d7-89e4-42b8-9592-4bd5d698f4ef--Polaris-TDOM-Cover-1080x1080-1_400x3000.jpg?v=1578684418'}, {title: 'H.E.A.T - II', text: 'The Swedes have returned to that catchy eighties rock that won them so many followers years ago. One of the funniest albums of this year whose riffs will make us get up from our chairs and start jumping and dancing all over the house', imageURL: 'https://www.rocknet.se/images/product/266/12266-7-2.jpg'}, {title: 'MAKE THEM SUFFER - HOW TO SURVIVE A FUNERAL', text: 'More Australian metalcore but with a composition that in my view gives it a touch that differentiates it from other bands with which they share a genre. Aggressiveness and diversity of songs that make up a very complete and appetizing album', imageURL: 'https://i0.wp.com/necromance.eu/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/make-them-suffer-2020-web.jpg?w=650&ssl=1'}, {title: 'DEATH & LEGACY - INF3RNO', text: 'Second Spanish group that enters the top 10 of this 2020. The band based in Zamora have done a brutal job. Dante's Inferno told in eight catchy tracks, with brutal power and melodic death metal overtones.', imageURL: 'https://deathandlegacy.com/images/lp3.jpg'}, {title: 'SEPULTURA - QUADRA'}, {title: 'THUNDERMOTHER - HEAT WAVE'}, {title: 'BEYOND THE BLACK - HORIZONS'}, {title: 'BURNING WITCHES - DANCE WITH THE DEVIL'}, {title: 'PRIMAL FEAR - METAL COMMANDO'}, {title: 'HEAVEN SHALL BURN - OF TRUTH AND SACRIFICE'}, {title: 'UNLEASH THE ARCHERS - ABYSS'}, {title: 'TEMPERANCE - VIRIDIAN'}, {title: 'DIABULUS IN MUSICA - EUPHONIC ENTROPY'}, {title: 'APOCALYPTICA - CELL-0'}, {title: 'LAMB OF GOD - LAMB OF GOD'}, {title: 'PAIN OF SALVATION - PANTHER'}, {title: 'ILLUMISHADE - ECLYPTIC - WAKE OF SHADOWS'}, {title: 'AD INFINITUM - CHAPTER I - MONARCHY'}, {title: 'AC/DC - POWER UP'}, {title: 'ENSIFERUM - THALASSIC'}, {title: 'SAUROM - MÚSICA'}, {title: 'DELAINE - APOCALYPSE & CHILL'}, {title: 'DEFTONES - OHMS'}, {title: 'SERIOUS BLACK - SUITE 226'}, {title: 'DEVILSKIN - RED'}, {title: 'MARILYN MANSON - WE ARE CHAOS'}, {title: 'ALESTORM - CURSE OF THE CRYSTAL COCONUT'}, {title: 'DEMONS & WIZARDS - III'}, {title: 'MYRKUR - FOLKSANGE'}, {title: 'OZZY OSBOURNE - ORDINARY MAN'}, {title: 'FIVE FINGER DEATH PUNCH - F8'}, {title: 'SCARLET AURA - STORMBRAKER'}, {title: 'TURMION KÄTILÖT - GLOBAL WARNING'}]" />

<h2>Compilations, live albums, EP's, remasters, etc. liked us the most</h2>

This year that concerts have been conspicuous by their absence due to the damn virus, a large number of live concerts have gone on sale. Chance or something premeditated? Even so, it is to be appreciated, even if it is not the same to lose heart with hundreds of people singing a few meters from your favorite band than to see it calmly from the sofa at home. But less is nothing.

<ordered-list :list="[{title: 'HAMMERFALL - LIVE! AGAINST THE WORLD'}, {title: 'KAMELOT - I AM THE EMPIRE - LIVE FROM THE 013'}, {title: 'PARKWAY DRIVE - VIVA THE UNDERDOGS'}, {title: 'KREATOR - LONDON APOCALYPTICON (LIVE)'}, {title: 'JINJER - ALIVE IN MELBOURNE'}, {title: 'STRAVAGANZZA - LA NOCHE DEL FÉNIX'}, {title: 'HALESTORM - REIMAGINED'}, {title: 'BLOODHUNTER - BLOODHUNTER'}, {title: 'VISIONS OF ATLANTIS - A SYMPHONIC JOURNEY TO REMEMBER'}, {title: 'IRON MAIDEN - NIGHTS OF THE DEAD, LEGACY OF THE BEAST: LIVE IN MEXICO CITY'}, {title: 'SÖBER - LA SINFONÍA DEL PARADŸSSO'}, {title: 'DREAM THEATER - DISTANT MEMORIES - LIVE IN LONDON'}, {title: 'FIVE FINGER DEATH PUNCH - A DECADE OF DESTRUCTION VOL. 2'}, {title: 'DORO - MAGIC DIAMONDS - BEST OF ROCK, BALLADS & RARE TREASURES'}]"/>