---
title: 'Best of... 2019'
id: 'bestOf-2019'
date: 2019-12-23T22:57:00-05:00
categories: ['bestOf']
tags: ['']
description: |
    Review for the best, for me, of 2019
---

As every year, it is time to review the best, in my humble opinion, which has happened in the year on a musical level. Taking advantage of the post format (other years I've published it in thread format on twitter), I will include some more sections.

<h2>The best studio albums</h2>

<ordered-list :list="[{title: 'JINJER - MACRO', text: 'Completing the EP that they released at the beginning of the year, Micro, this LP demonstrates the excellent state of form of the Ukrainians Despite being touring tirelessly, they have made an an incredible work, in which they continue to take their style to new levels.', imageURL:'https://i.scdn.co/image/ab67616d0000b2734a6f9ef342efc29ff08216bb'}, {title: 'THE AGONIST - ORPHANS', text: 'Despite the problems they have had to release the album, they have brought out a real bombshell. With themes like In Vertigo, As One We Survive, The Gift Of Silence or Blood as My Guide, where the incredible vocal enhancement of Vicky Psarakis is shown.', imageURL: 'https://i.scdn.co/image/ab67616d0000b2737af8e24cc2ff2dca37944d28'}, {title: 'SABATON - THE GREAT WAR', text: 'I really wanted to have new material and on the first listen it was quite disappointing. He missed songs as direct as Attero Dominatus or Primo Victoria. As I listened to the album, I could taste the full quality of it. Lyrics, music, choirs... Delicious.', imageURL: 'https://i.scdn.co/image/ab67616d0000b273b37a2bb117c7ae30ee77b6bd'}, {title: 'ELUVEITIE - ATEGNATOS', text: 'A precious disc. With a variety of instruments (violin, knob, flute, hurdy gurdy, etc.) to offer us powerful folk metal with two voices as impressive as the guttural of Chrigel Glanzmann and the clean Fabienne Erni', imageURL:'https://i.scdn.co/image/ab67616d0000b27378f2ccc1274ffa64711d7ca4'}, {title: 'LACUNA COIL - BLACK ANIMA', text: 'Another little step for Italians. For many, a reunion with its beginnings. For me, one more evolution for the path that they started to mark from the Dark Adrenaline. Another twist to the impressive voice of Cristina is in a perfect balance of protagonism with Andrea.', imageURL:'https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/I/71Oyy08spkL._SY355_.jpg'}, {title: 'AMON AMARTH - BERSERKER', text: 'The Vikings have done it again. Berserker is amazing. Johan Hegg again demonstrates his vocal power by singing stories about Norse mythology. Raven\'s Flight is amazing. Crack the Sky and Shield Wall get into your head and destroy you with their refrain.', imageURL:'https://i.scdn.co/image/ab67616d0000b2738d529980602b892735c091c7'}, {title: 'CHILDREN OF BODOM - HEXED', text: 'This is when many may start to hate me. While it is true that I have not followed the beginnings of the group, this Hexed caught me by surprise and spent several months on my playlist. Fun to listen to, maybe it is not the best of the year or contributes too much to the genre, but it has helped me to know a little more about the Finns and dust off their first works to find where to compare.', imageURL: 'https://i.scdn.co/image/ab67616d0000b2734744e389c646edc650f65910'}, {title: 'BATTLE BEAST - NO MORE HOLLYWOOD ENDINGS', text: 'It may not be the brightest of the year, but it has given me very good moments. Very correct themes, easy to assimilate and with the voice of Noora. I love that 80s air. I really want to see them live, damn!', imageURL: 'https://battlebeast.fi/img/nmhe.bcd250447622b4c31280c012cbd3eca6.jpg'}, {title: 'CARNIFEX - WORLD WAR X', text: 'Where was I without knowing Carnifex? I don\'t know how I got to this group or this album. What a slap in the face! What a whiplash! A delight that dances between deathcore and melodic deathmetal.', imageURL: 'https://i.scdn.co/image/ab67616d0000b2735f1da5142e2426acbe164ddb'}, {title: 'FOREVER STILL - BREATHE IN COLOURS', text: 'Forever Still is my personal bet for a few years. The quality of the young Maja Shining and Mikkel Haastrup are reflected in their second LP, taking their alternative metal to another level. Increasingly daring sounds that work really well (they have even dared to use a theremin at their concerts)', imageURL: 'https://i.scdn.co/image/ab67616d0000b2730578ac6fb10a4624a95e40b0'}, {title: 'INFECTED RAIN - ENDORPHIN'}, {title: 'AVANTASIA - MOONGLOW'}, {title: 'BURNING WITCHES - BURNING WITCHES'}, {title: 'KOBRA AND THE LOTUS - EVOLUTION'}, {title: 'VOLBEAT - REWIND, REPLAY, REBOUND'}, {title: 'WHILE SHE SLEEPS - SO WHAT?'}, {title: 'SOILWORK - VERKLIGHETEN'}, {title: 'DREAM THEATER - DISTANCE OVER TIME'}, {title: 'ALTER BRIDGE - WALK THE SKY'}, {title: 'MARCO HIETALA - MUSTAN SYDÄMEN ROVIO'}, {title: 'TARJA - IN THE RAW'}, {title: 'WITHIN TEMPTATION - RESIST'}, {title: 'BLACKRAIN - DYING BREED'}, {title: 'IRON SAVIOR - KILL OR GET KILLED'}, {title: 'NEW YEARS DAY - UNBREAKABLE'}, {title: 'VISIONS OF ATLANTIS - WANDERERS'}, {title: 'TURILLI/LIONE RHAPSODY - ZERO GRAVITY (REBIRTH AND EVOLUTION)'}, {title: 'CELLAR DARLING - THE SPELL'}, {title: 'RAMMSTEIN - RAMMSTEIN'}, {title: 'CRYSTAL VIPER - TALES OF FIRE AND ICE'}, {title: 'KORN - THE NOTHING'}, {title: 'DRAGONFORCE - EXTREME POWER METAL'}, {title: 'BEAST IN BLACK - FROM HELL WITH LOVE'}, {title: 'SASCHA PAETH\'S MASTERS OF CEREMONY - SIGN OF WIND'}, {title: 'SLIPKNOT - WE ARE NOT YOUR KIND'}, {title: 'TÝR - HEL'}, {title: 'DELAIN - HUNTERS MOON'}, {title: 'SONATA ARCTICA - TALVIYÖ'}, {title: 'AVALANCH - EL SECRETO'}, {title: 'HAMMERFALL - DOMINION'}, {title: 'DRAGONFLY - ZEITGEIST'}, {title: 'RHAPSODY OF FIRE - THE EIGHTH MOUNTAIN'}, {title: 'EVERGREY - THE ATLANTIC'}, {title: 'HORA ZULÚ - LA VOZ DEL AMO'}, {title: 'TOOL - FEAR INOCOLUM'}, {title: 'LEO JIMÉNEZ - MESÍAS'}]" />

<h2>Best compilations, live albums, EP's, remasters, etc.</h2>

I always like to separate between newly created studio LPs of compilations, live ... because it is not the same to take ten or twelve new songs than to take a live, or songs that you had recorded from long ago and take them out again. Without detracting from that job, watch out!

Among the highlights of this amalgam of genres we find first of all the live edition of the concert that Helloween did in Madrid a couple of years ago. A brilliant edition that brings me, personally, very good memories. Jinjer released his Micro EP earlier this year. 4 + 1 impressive themes that would be the appetizer of what has been your LP Macro. Epica's Design Your Universe is celebrating its anniversary, and they have decided to reissue it with such a quality that it sounds very fresh. The remastered edition of the Rebel Extravaganza is quite a treat for Satyricon fans like me. Then we find more expendable editions such as Arch Enemy's Covered in Blood, which brings together a large number of covers already heard on his extensive discography. I leave the full list below:

<ordered-list :list="[{title: 'HELLOWEEN - UNITED ALIVE IN MADRID [LIVE]'}, {title: 'JINJER - MICRO [EP]'}, {title: 'EPICA - DESIGN YOUR UNIVERSE [REMASTER]'}, {title: 'ELUVEITIE - LIVE AT MASTERS OF ROCK 2019 [LIVE]'}, {title: 'SATYRICON - REBEL EXTRAVAGANZA [REMASTER]'}, {title: 'TRIBULATION - ALIVE & DEATH AT SÖDRA TEATERN [LIVE]'}, {title: 'KREATOR - LIVE AT DYNAMO OPEN AIR 2018 [LIVE]'}, {title: 'JORN - LIVE ON THE DEATH ROAD [LIVE]'}, {title: 'STONE SOUR - HELLO, YOU BASTARDS: LIVE IN RENO [LIVE]'}, {title: 'MEGADETH - WARHEADS ON FOREHEADS [REMASTER]'}, {title: 'METALLICA - HELPING HANDS... LIVE & ACOUSTIC AT THE MASONIC [LIVE]'}, {title: 'AFTER FOREVER - ECCENTRIC [REMASTER]'}, {title: 'NIGHTWISH - DECADES: LIVE IN BUENOS AIRES [REMASTER]'}, {title: 'BULLET - LIVE [LIVE]'}, {title: 'ARCH ENEMY - COVERED IN BLOOD [COVERS]'}]"/>